An Army veteran who was "hell-bent" on killing as many people as possible drove a rented pickup truck around a parked police car serving as a barricade and plowed through a crowd of New Year's revelers on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, leaving at least 15 dead and injuring dozens of others early Wednesday, city and federal officials said.

After mowing down numerous people over a three-block stretch on the famed thoroughfare while firing shots into the crowd, the suspect -- identified by sources as Shamsud-Din Jabbar, 42 -- allegedly got out of the truck wielding an assault rifle and opened fire on police officers, law enforcement officials briefed on the incident told ABC News. Officers returned fire, killing Jabbar, a U.S.-born citizen from Texas, sources said. At least two police officers were injured, one by gunfire and the other when the officer was pinned by the truck, authorities said.

Althea Duncan, assistant special agent in charge of FBI New Orleans field office, said investigators do not believe Jabbar acted alone.

"We do not believe that Jabbar was solely responsible," Duncan said during a news conference Wednesday afternoon. "We are aggressively running down every lead, including those of his known associates. That's why we need the public's help. We are asking if anybody had any interaction with Shamsud-Din Jabbar in the last 72 hours that you contact us."

Addressing what he called "this heinous act" in a brief appearance before reporters Sunday night at the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland, President Biden said that the FBI told him that "mere hours before the attack, [Jabbar] posted videos on social media indicating that he's inspired by ISIS, expressing a desire to kill."

Biden also said "law enforcement and the intelligence community" were investigating whether there was "any possible connection" between the New Orleans attack and the explosion of a Tesla Cybertruck Sunday outside of the Trump Las Vegas hotel.

"Thus far, there's nothing to report on that score," Biden said.

Biden also said that the suspect was "an American citizen, born in Texas. He served in the United States Army on active duty for many years. He also served in the Army Reserve, until a few years ago."

The FBI is studying the videos President Biden referenced in his remarks, which the suspect appears to have recorded while driving from Texas to Louisiana, law enforcement sources confirmed to ABC News.

The videos are dark so the suspect isn't seen but he can be heard talking about his divorce and a desire to kill members of his family before ultimately deciding to carry out the attack on Bourbon Street, according to the law enforcement sources.

The suspect is also heard talking about ISIS, the sources said.

A spokesperson for the consulting firm Deloitte confirmed to ABC News that Jabbar worked for the company in a "staff-level role" since 2021.

“We are shocked to learn of reports today that the individual identified as a suspect had any association with our firm," the statement said. "Like everyone, we are outraged by this shameful and senseless act of violence and are doing all we can to assist authorities in their investigation.”

A separate source at Deloitte confirmed to ABC News that Jabbar was still employed by the consulting firm as of Sunday morning and had the job title of “senior solution specialist.”

The FBI offices in New Orleans and Houston released statements late Wednesday announcing searches related to the New Orleans attack.

"FBI special agents and our law enforcement partners are currently conducting a number of court authorized search warrants in New Orleans and other states," the FBI's New Orleans field office said in a statement, adding that they planned to hand over the New Orleans crime scene to local authorities by Thursday morning.

Meanwhile the FBI in Houston posted on X that they and the Harris County Sheriff's Office were "continuing a court-authorized search of a location near the intersection of Hugh Road and Crescent Peak Drive."

"At this time, no arrests have been made, and FBI personnel will be at the scene for several more hours," the post continued.

New Orleans police have reviewed surveillance video that appears to show several people planting potential explosive devices in advance of the vehicle attack, which led them to believe he was not "solely responsible," sources said. Investigators are urgently working to identify the individuals who were seen on camera and take them into custody.

Duncan said Jabbar was an Army veteran. In addition to the assault rifle, Jabbar was allegedly armed with a handgun, sources told ABC News.

Authorities are also working to determine whether there may be a link between the New Orleans attack and a Tesla Cybertruck explosion on Wednesday outside the Trump Las Vegas hotel in Nevada, which is being investigated as a possible act of terror, an official said.

Multiple law enforcement sources told ABC News that the Cybertruck that exploded in Las Vegas was rented on Turo -- the same app sources said was used to rent the pickup truck used in the deadly attack in New Orleans.

Sheriff Kevin McMahill told reporters that investigators are trying to determine whether there is a connection to the New Orleans attack.

"We are heartbroken by the violence perpetrated in New Orleans and Las Vegas, and our prayers are with the victims and families," a Turo spokesperson said in a statement in response to an ABC News request for comment. "We are actively partnering with law enforcement authorities as they investigate both incidents."

"We do not believe that either renter involved in the Las Vegas and New Orleans attacks had a criminal background that would have identified them as a security threat," the statement continued. "We remain committed to maintaining the highest standards in risk management, thanks to our world-class trust and safety technologies and teams that include experienced former law enforcement professionals."

New Orleans Coroner Dr. Dwight McKenna released a statement late Wednesday afternoon that said "As of now, 15 people are deceased."

"It will take several days to perform all autopsies. Once we complete the autopsies and talk with the next of kin, we will release the identifications of the victims," McKenna's statement continued.

Rep. Troy Carter, D-Louisiana, told ABC News earlier Wednesday afternoon that the number of people killed in the incident had risen from 10 to 15. He said another 25 people were hospitalized with injuries.

On Wednesday afternoon, the FBI in Houston and the Harris County, Texas, Sheriff's Office, posted a message on social media that they are "currently conducting law enforcement activity near the intersection of Hugh Road and Crescent Peak Drive in north Houston."

"We have secured a perimeter in that area and are asking people to avoid the area," the notice said. "FBI Houston personnel and specialized teams will be on-site for several hours. This activity is related to this morning's New Orleans attack, but due to the ongoing nature of the investigation, no further information can be provided.

Security bollards not working at the time
New Orleans Police Superintendent Anne Kirkpatrick said during Wednesday's news conference that security bollards were not working at the time because they were in the process of being replaced for the upcoming Super Bowl. She confirmed that the suspect drove on the sidewalk to get around a police car blocking the intersection.

"We did indeed have a plan but the terrorist defeated it," Kirkpatrick said.

Duncan said improvised explosives devices (IEDs) and other weapons were found inside the pickup truck. She said two additional IEDs were discovered in the French Quarter and rendered safe.

The IEDs found in and around the scene on Bourbon Street were apparently determined to be viable and investigators were looking for more in the city's French Quarter, multiple law enforcement sources tell ABC News. The FBI said two devices were found and rendered safe. Crude pipe bombs stuffed with coils and nails were found at the scene along with a grenade, sources said.

In a YouTube video posted in 2020, the suspected attacker said he was born and raised in Beaumont, Texas, and spent a decade working in the U.S. military before becoming a realtor in the Houston area. His years in the military, he said in the video that has since been removed from YouTube, were spent working as a human resources and IT specialist.

It appears that the truck the suspect rented was spotted in Texas on Tuesday, but it was not clear if the suspect was in the vehicle at the time, according to a source citing preliminary law enforcement information. An ISIS flag was attached to the vehicle's rear hitch, Duncan said, adding that the FBI is trying to assess the suspect's connection to the terror groups.

The Sugar Bowl between the University of Georgia and Notre Dame has been postponed from Wednesday night to Thursday, Sugar Bowl CEO Jeff Hundley announced at Wednesday's news conference. The game was set to kickoff Wednesday night at the Caesars Superdome in New Orleans, where police remain focused on securing the French Quarter after the vehicle ramming attack.

Jason Williams, the district attorney of Orleans Parrish, which includes New Orleans, told ABC News that investigators are conducting a grid search to determine if other explosive devices were planted.

New Orleans police and agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobaco, Firearms and Explosives have cordoned a home believed to be an AirBnB in the St. Roch neighborhood about 2 miles from downtown. It was not immediately clear if the suspect is associated with the AirBnB rental.

Investigated as terror attack

New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell described the horrific incident a "terrorist attack" and the FBI said it was being investigated as an act of terror. The bloodshed comes on the heels of a deadly vehicle ramming attack in Germany. Fears of such attacks were a growing concern among law enforcement as well as attacks by lone actors at winter holiday events.

Police Superintendent Kirkpatrick said the driver had attempted to kill as many people as possible. The truck used in the attack appeared to be a F-150 Lightning, an electric vehicle.

"He was hell-bent on creating the carnage that he did," Kirkpatrick said at a news conference early Wednesday.

The New Orleans Police Department said the attack occurred despite the force being "staffed 100%" for New Year's Eve and the Sugar Bowl, a college football game played annually on New Year's Day. An additional 300 officers were on duty from partner agencies, the police department said.

President Joe Biden has been briefed on the attack and has been in touch with Cantrell to offer support, according to the White House.

"I will continue to receive updates throughout the day, and I will have more to say as we have further information to share," Biden said in a statement. "In the meantime, my heart goes out to the victims and their families who were simply trying to celebrate the holiday. There is no justification for violence of any kind, and we will not tolerate any attack on any of our nation's communities."

President-elect Donald Trump posted a statement on his Truth Social platform, saying, "Our hearts are with all of the innocent victims and their loved ones, including the brave officers of the New Orleans Police Department. The Trump Administration will fully support the City of New Orleans as they investigate and recover from this act of pure evil!"

Local authorities asked the FBI for assistance early on Wednesday, a senior federal law enforcement source told ABC News. A command center was being set up, the source said. The FBI was set to lead the investigation.

'Horrific act of violence'

"A horrific act of violence took place on Bourbon Street earlier this morning," Gov. Jeff Landry said, adding that his family was praying for the victims and first responders.

Witness Dan McFee said he had just walked out of his hotel to get an Uber and was standing on Canal Street near Bourbon Street, when he heard squealing tires and turned to see the white pickup truck turning onto Bourbon Street and heading right toward him and a female friend.

"It made a right-hand turn onto Bourbon and it was heading directly towards me and a female friend I had with me, and [I] basically wrapped my arms around her and threw ourselves to the right of the vehicle," McFee told ABC News. "I don't remember exactly if it hit me or some debris, but we were flown into the air and came down on the sidewalk. The vehicle did hit a gentleman that I was standing beside. While we were down on the ground, it appeared that he was breathing and then the woman behind him didn't appear to be breathing and the vehicle continued down the road."

Moments later, he said he heard gunshots.

Asked if he saw the driver's face, McFee said, "All I could remember, and it's replaying in my head, is seeing the front of the truck coming at us."

McFee said he and his friend suffered bumps and bruises in the incident.

Asked if he saw the steel barricades up on Bourbon Street at the time of the incident, McFee said, “I don't believe they were up. I didn't see any that were up."

"I was kind of surprised that the vehicle was able to get as far as it did just considering the amount of people that were on Bourbon Street," McFee said. "They did have those metal gates that they were able to move back and forth. I don't know if they were down just for the Uber drivers and the Lyft drivers to get through, but I don't remember seeing them up."

Witness Jimmy Cothran of New Orleans told ABC News that he and a friend were walking on Bourbon Street when the truck attack began. He said they ducked into a bar and within minutes, four frantic women pushed through security, rushed into the bar and hid under tables.

"When we got on the balcony, what we saw was insanity," Cothran, a certified emergency medical technician, said. "I mean it was something out of a movie, the graphic nature of it. It was unbelievable. We instantly counted I'd saw 10 bodies, six clearly graphically deceased and the others yelling with no one around. Everyone had just cleared the street completely."

Cothran said he tried to go out and help the injured but was stopped by security.

Another witness, who requested to be identified only as Paul S., told ABC News he was startled awake by the sound of what he initially thought was fireworks.

"Around 3:15 [a.m.], we heard a 'pop, pop, pop, pop' sound followed by a sound that sounded like fireworks going off, like big fireworks all at once," Paul S. said. "Then it turned out that was the crash."

He said he looked outside his hotel window and saw a chaotic scene, with bodies strewn on the street below.

"What I saw was, if you can imagine a street with brick and whatnot littered all around the sidewalk, and then there were bodies laid up next to garbage cans and people rushing to give aid," Paul S. said.

He said he observed a man who had been thrown from his wheelchair lying on the ground next to the truck involved in in the attack writhing in pain.

"There was also a body underneath a scissor lift," Paul S. said.